Global warming isn’t a prediction, it is happening! A person denying it or unaware of it is 
in the most simple terms complicit. Do we have another planet to live on? Unfortunately, we 
have been bestowed with this one planet only that can sustain life yet over the years we have 
turned a blind eye to the plight it is in. Global warming is not an abstract concept but a global 
phenomenon occurring ever so slowly even at this moment.

Global Warming is a phenomenon that is occurring every minute resulting in a gradual increase
 in the Earth’s overall climate. Brought about by greenhouse gases that trap the solar radiation 
 in the atmosphere, global warming can change the entire map of the earth, displacing areas, 
 flooding many countries, and destroying multiple lifeforms. Extreme weather is a direct consequence 
 of global warming but it is not an exhaustive consequence. There are virtually limitless effects 
 of global warming which are all harmful to life on earth.

The sea level is increasing by 0.12 inches per year worldwide. This is happening because of the 
melting of polar ice caps because of global warming. This has increased the frequency of floods
 in many lowland areas and has caused damage to coral reefs. The Arctic is one of the worst-hit 
 areas affected by global warming. Air quality has been adversely affected and the acidity of the 
 seawater has also increased causing severe damage to marine life forms. Severe natural disasters
  are brought about by global warming which has had dire effects on life and property.

As long as mankind produces greenhouse gases, global warming will continue to accelerate. 
The consequences are felt at a much smaller scale which will increase to become drastic shortly.
 The power to save the day lies in the hands of humans, the need is to seize the day.
  Energy consumption should be reduced on an individual basis. Fuel-efficient cars and other 
  electronics should be encouraged to reduce the wastage of energy sources. This will also improve 
  air quality and reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Global warming 
  is an evil that can only be defeated when fought together.

It is better late than never. If we all take steps today, we will have a much brighter future tomorrow.
 Global warming is the bane of our existence and various policies have come up worldwide to fight it but that is not enough. 
 The actual difference is made when we work at an individual level to fight it. 
 Understanding its import now is crucial before it becomes an irrevocable mistake.
  Exterminating global warming is of utmost importance and each one of us is as responsible for it as the next.  